have you ever wished you could have 15
minutes with a successful ecommerce
business owner just to ask them your
most burning questions well that's what
i have for you here today i'm jill
saskingales a digital marketing
consultant coach and creator and i'm
here with albert ciao who is the ceo and
co-founder of silk and snow thank you
for joining me albert yeah thanks for
having me jill
and so for those who may not be familiar
how would you answer the question what
is silicon snow
so silken snow is a
e-commerce retailer of bedding and
mattresses we like to think that we are
a more thoughtful and responsible
retailer of our categories
yes and i actually am a fan of silk and
snow i've bought the mattress the pillow
and the weighted blanket i'm telling you
if you have not checked out silicon
snow's cotton weighted blanket it is
life-changing and my husband would agree
he said i have to stop picking him in
the middle of the night thanks to that
blanket as well
i'm glad it's working out
so i have three burning questions that i
wanted to ask you today and the first
one uh is something i know a lot of
business owners grapple with and that's
about brand identity and coming up with
a visual representation of your brand
that manifestation of your brand and i
know that you actually went through a
rebranding process that the way silk and
snow looks and appears now is not the
same as how it was when you first
started the business so can you tell me
a little bit about your thought process
of how you knew was time to rebrand and
how you went about doing that
yeah so um
we started soaking snow in 2017 so it's
been a bit of a journey to get to this
point of where our brand position is but
uh
when we started in 2017 we were really
just a direct to consumer mattress in a
box company
and at that time i think we were a bit
naive and we thought that we were one of
the first few in the space especially in
canada but little did we know there was
probably like a hundred other
competitors that were in our space and
uh naively at that time like i i came
from a tech background but i was
fortunate enough over time to
um really have a number of team members
join us that were really strong on brand
and um
one of the things we learned early on
was that in the mattress category it's a
high cac mobile tv business
and and so there was not very much uh
repeatability in our business and so
at that time uh maybe a couple years
down in our journey we really decided
that we we need to
um expand categories and really um
continue to work on building brand
loyalty and repeatability of our
business whether it happens like with
mattresses which i i don't think happens
very much where you buy
uh multiple mattresses in a year
and we're really banking on you know the
adjacent categories and growing a
lifestyle brand that that really
resonated with customers
um so over the last few years and that's
kind of when we mentioned
we were really focused on
owning in on our brand message so when
we started silk and snow one of the
unique things that we accidentally
landed on was that our mattresses were
built locally and everything from you
know all the raw materials of the coil
the phone being poured
um the fabric that was being spun and
even the mattress assembly they were all
done in a 10 kilometer radius of where
we're located wow
yeah so so unique yeah it is i i didn't
think we thought that at the time but um
i think as as you know we we kind of uh
[Music]
marketed our initial product which is
our mattresses um we found that that was
really our unique selling proposition
was our closeness to the supply chain
and
how we kind of promoted a quality
product through responsible
manufacturing and sustainability and we
felt that that was a message that
resonated and something that we could
sustain as we continue to grow through
our product categories um so over the
last few years we've really been focused
on expanding our categories but also
maintaining the same brand positioning
and and
consistency whether it's like new
products or
applying it to
different areas of our business to
ensure that we're continuing to
speak the message that resonates with
our customers
and before we dive a bit deeper into
product expansion so tactically when you
were changing what your brand looked
like did you come up with a new logo or
a new mission statement like what did
that look like tactically when you
wanted to evolve the brand
yeah it was um interesting because we
went through a couple of iterations of
this and i i found that um the easy part
for us was to actually come up with the
brand guideline and you know there's a
lot of agencies that'll do that for you
it's it's one thing to create like a
really nice fancy deck with
uh fonts logo and colors and and it's a
whole nother thing to actually
operationalize that so we were fortunate
as we had a lot of team members that
were strong in both um
uh
you know vision but also operationally
executing
i found the hardest part was just kind
of making sure that all the different
parts of the business were following
that so over the last few years it
wasn't just about um creative although
obviously we spent a lot of effort in
producing creative and content and and
making sure that our products align to
our brand but um
i think the other effort was also just
growing like let's say all the other
customer touch points whether it's um
the customer experience or the customer
service team and making sure that their
voices on brand um and and choosing
uh and not making any sacrifices on
retail partnerships like it's easy to
kind of make concessions and work with
all the retail partners that'll
come your way but uh it's harder to
actually
hold true to your brand and ensure that
you're selecting partners that also
value um the the same principles that
you value and then we've applied that to
everything from product development to
brand and retail partnerships and
customer service and that's kind of been
the bulk of our work in the last few
years
i think that's such a great takeaway
when you think about a brand we usually
think about the um
visual manifestation of a brand but that
if you're really living true to this
brand of being sustainable and local
that goes through all different levels
of your organization the way you ship
the way you talk to customers who you
choose to partner with that's a really
great lesson i think for newer business
owners yeah i think especially being a
direct to consumer model you're really
responsible for all the touch points in
the customer for mentoring whether it's
the manufacturing or uh the fulfillment
of the product so it's uh it's a lot of
a lot of good things to keep in mind
absolutely and so let's talk a little
bit more about product expansion you
started with mattresses you expanded
more into bedroom you know sheets and
blankets and now you recently expanded
into bathrobes with a bathroom with
robes and towels so can you tell me a
little bit more about that product
development process and how you decide
what to launch next and whether it fits
with your brand
yeah um so we
we did also start with the deck
for for brand positioning and uh we went
down uh like it's it's it's a living and
breathing document and and uh we
continue to continue to evolve it every
year that we've been in business and we
put a lot of focus on it and and that
even translates into the product
development so we kind of start with a
very broad brand vision and an identity
and we let it uh we articulate that also
in product principles of um
you know what what makes this a console
product so
can you give us an example like what's
one product principle what makes a silk
and snow product yeah i i think there uh
there are a number of factors that we
choose um obviously like we wanted to be
done in the most responsible way in
terms of making the product so a lot of
that comes down to the raw material so
it you know every product is different
but um usually we
we start with the best
most traceable raw material so
um it's ethically produced or it's um
sustainable in nature and we design the
product based on that and usually that's
that's kind of the hard part because the
our constraint is in the raw materials i
think the other factor that we we put a
lot of time in is is really just um
choosing the right partners and telling
the story of our partners we i think
early on in our journey we um
uh we work with a lot of mass
manufacturers that were working with a
lot of the large retailers and they
produced a really commodity product in a
fast fashion sort of way and for us we
really focused on looking for more of
the artisanal manufacturers and they do
come with their own problems in terms of
a slower manufacturing mentality but
what we end up with typically is a more
unique and thoughtful product one more
thing i have to ask you about especially
in light of being such a um
sustainable company is sales and
promotions you know this is something
that's always on the mind of e-commerce
retailers especially around the black
friday cyber monday sale sale sale bye
bye bye and i noticed that you did
something really unique this past
holiday season you're messaging you know
you did have a sale but the messaging
really aligned with your brand it said
like take your time i think at the
beginning of november you announced
there was a sale but it wasn't buying
albino buy now it was like take your
time we're gonna have this sale all
month long and these are the great
prices for this season so can you talk
to me a bit about the decision making
that went into that in that creative
process
yeah um
just for some context i think in our
category we're always
like for mattresses and bedding it's a
very promo driven
um business and uh one of the things we
fight is just
uh
having to market based on creating that
urgency to buy
and um what we've seen every year is
that uh you know on black friday
that that sale period gets longer and
longer and the sales gets more and more
aggressive and what we've found over the
years is that what it leads to is um
just
people making quick decisions and and
that might even translate to a large
amount of returns for for our products
and and i think that's with every
retailer and
if you kind of know what ends up on the
back end of returns like they're usually
not resellable and it's not very uh
sustainable in terms of the way you can
run a business so um for us uh again we
kind of wanted to stay true to our our
brand um everything for us is about
thoughtfulness and
response responsibility and in terms of
how we do things and uh we really wanted
to
allow people to make considerate
decisions um i i think everyone still
expects a deal on black friday it's it's
it's inevitable um so we we did the sale
but we
announced it well in advance um we
wanted to make sure that people had
enough time to make a considered
decision and and we liked how that felt
um like it it felt really on brand it
felt like uh
it was the right thing to do and even on
the back end of it i think there's some
indirect sustainability benefits of not
pushing people into an urgent decision
and are you able to share like did you
see lower return rates or did you see
any difference this year and people
using the sale
yeah what's interesting is um
you know like uh every year that we've
done this uh like you know um
a black friday period we typically see
people coming back to return at much
higher rates and um we also see people
um coming back even for price
adjustments even though we're primarily
an online company
and um during during the period where we
ran this this uh
this this style of a black friday period
i i found that um a lot of the
uh operationally it was like much more
sensible like we didn't have this one
huge lump of of volume of orders that
came in on a short period of time and um
i think even on the return side uh it
was is a lot more flattened in terms of
people just having uh buyer's remorse
and uh not that that typically happens
in in a lot of our products but i think
uh it was it was um it felt a lot calmer
and a lot more sensible in terms of how
we operated as a business
absolutely and it actually reminds me a
lot of what you were saying earlier
about the brand like you came up with
this policy that's more customer
friendly and designed to have benefit
for the customer but then in turn it had
a lot of benefit for your business and
spreading out the order volume and lower
returns and just less stress not just
for customers but for the business as
well
yeah it really lends itself i think even
to you know us promoting wellness and
and staying
you know
being calm and and uh
a more relaxed type of category that
sleeping easier at night in your silk
and snow bed
well i have one more question i have to
ask you for today and that's if you
could talk to the you who was just
starting silk and snow you know all
those years ago what's one piece of
advice you would give past albert new
business owner albert
oh yeah i i think there's a lot we could
say but um you know like when we started
this about five years ago i
uh although i think um
entrepreneurialism is is a very
risky path
i i think we really approached it with a
lot of anxiety and and always kind of
thinking the worst would happen and over
the five years especially
what everyone has seen in these last
five years from like supply chain issues
to just the the onset of the pandemic
and what that would mean for how
businesses would evolve we really
um rode the wave of emotions and i think
what what i've kind of learned over time
is that it's a very
up and down type of uh venture whether
it's emotional or even uh from a
business perspective and if i could talk
to myself five years ago i would
probably tell them that
you know they'll all work itself out
eventually and uh yeah that will be okay
just some reassurance it'll all turn out
wonderful thank you so much for joining
me today this is 15 minutes with albert
ciao and if you want to watch more
videos like this be sure to subscribe to
my youtube channel